hey let me ask you something have you
ever created a campaign on Google and
you launched it and you're super pumped
you're like all my prospective customers
are gonna see this I'm gonna get tons of
clicks I'm gonna outrank all my
competitors and then you go to look for
your ads you search your keywords and
you can never find your own ads you're
not getting any clicks you're nowhere to
be seen well guess what that's because
your ad rank is super low and you're
actually losing out to all your
competitors but in this video I'm really
gonna break down what Google ad rank is
and how you can improve it even if
you're a complete beginner and you have
no idea what it is I'm talking about and
by the way my name is Sylvia Perez and I
create content every week on Google ads
and pay-per-click advertising so if you
like that kind of stuff and you get some
value from this video feel free to
subscribe to the channel but without
further ado I'm gonna go ahead and hop
into my computer and really break down
all the variables that go into ad rank
and how to improve it so you can take
actionable steps moving forward and by
the way all this stuff I'm going to talk
about moving forward is things from my
own personal experience that have helped
me and my clients improve their Google a
drink so they can get seen and
ultimately get more customers all right
let's get started all right so what is
ad rank and how can we go ahead and
improve it so we can get our ads seen on
the top of the page and beat all our
competitors so first and foremost a
drink is a score that Google gives you
that determines on how likely you are to
be on top of the page or below the page
depending on these two variables a drink
is calculated by your max cost per click
bid and your quality score your max cost
per click bid is the bid levels that you
set at the keyword level for your
keywords and then your Quality Score
Quality Score is a metric that Google
released that basically just says how
relevant are you to what people are
looking for how well are you solving the
searchers problem remember Google is a
business and they want people to
continue to use Google so Google release
Quality Score so that way advertisers
can create relevant ads and have
relevant landing pages that solve
searchers problems so when I go to
Google and I search for something and I
click on that that ad I'm actually gonna
find what I'm looking for so that's what
Quality Score is now me personally when
I go to improve ad rank for my clients I
really try to focus more on the Quality
Score side of things and I leave the max
cost per click for last now that's not
to say that max cost per click is not
important it's super important it's 50%
of this equation but I really try to
raise B
as a last resort and I really try to
focus on quality score now remember
Google Ads is an auction place as more
people compete and bid on these keywords
that's gonna drive max cost per click
bids up so if you're not remaining
competitive in your bid price then you
will lose out to your competition and
have a much lower a drink so let's
really go further ahead and diagnose
what Quality Score is made up of so that
way you can understand the different
elements and improve your quality score
to increase your ad rank so first and
foremost you have add relevance add
relevance is how relevant are your
keywords to your ads now when it comes
to add relevance this just basically it
comes down to organization in your
account a lot of success with Google Ads
just comes out to being well organized
so how well organized are your keywords
to your ad groups and to your ads so by
organizing your ad groups thematically
making sure that your keywords are
groups nice and nice and tight no more
than I would say 10 maybe 15 keywords
after that you're really gonna start
losing add relevance because it's gonna
be really hard to match your keywords to
your ads so here's a real example let's
say I go to Google and I'm looking for
dog-sitting services so I search
dog-sitting services near me I expect to
see an ad that utilizes that keyword
dog-sitting
so here are the results that I got and
you can see here here's three different
ones they do reference dog but something
that these advertisers can do to make
their ads even more relevant to the
keywords that I'm searching is utilize
dog sitting instead of pet sitting so if
you see this first ad right here buy
Rover in the display URL they put pet
slash sitting instead of putting that
they should put dog sitting and that'll
be more relevant to the keywords that
I'm using and that will increase their
ad relevance as well so really this just
comes out an organization how organized
are your ad groups and are you grouping
your keywords thematically to your ads
that's ad relevance now the next thing
is your landing page experience how
relevant are your keywords and ads to
your landing page so going back to that
dog-sitting example if I click on one of
those ads I expect to go to a page that
talks all about dog sitting services and
near my location so here's an example of
a dog landing page from those ads from
fit and go pets comm and the first thing
I see is happy dogs
happy world which is great so I know at
least I'm in the right ballpark that
this is something to do with dog dogs
but even this landing page can be
improved in terms of relevance where I
said in my search I put dog sitting
services near me so perhaps on this
landing page they can have something
local to me so if I'm in Miami they
should have something here says dog
sitting services in Miami and I can see
it right away something to as a
something you guys can try out when
optimizing your landing pages and
designing your landing pages there's
something called the five-second test
that you can run your landing page
through and it's basically very simple
in five seconds of me landing on your
landing page I should know what it is
you do who you do it for and why I
should choose you so can it run your
landing pages through the five-second
test and always make sure that you're
tying your landing pages to your ads
into your keywords again going back to
that organizational aspect of Google Ads
so if I have an ad group in my campaign
that's all about dog sitting it should
have dog sitting keywords dog sitting
ads and a dog sitting landing page so
everything's relevant so we can promote
high ad relevance and high landing page
experience which is going to improve our
quality scores and by improving our
quality scores our a drink will go
higher and we won't necessarily have to
pay more per click to be even more
competitive than our advertisers now the
next one is our expected click-through
rate and this expected click-through
rate or expected CTR is just how often
does Google perceive your ads will be
clicked on versus competitors now from
my experience of auditing Google Ads
accounts and diagnosing quality score
this is usually the number one deterrent
on successful quality scores ideally you
want to have quality scores of seven or
greater it's between one and ten so you
usually want to have your quality scores
seven and greater an expected
click-through rate in my experience has
been the one that hurts people the most
more so than add relevance and landing
page experience now when it comes to
your click-through rate your expected
click-through rate being harmed there's
really four things that I've noticed in
my experience that have really you know
really are a big deterrent on this so
what harms expected click-through rate
in my experience is first your bidding 1
could be either your max cost per click
bid or your
bid strategy so remember going back to a
drink max cost-per-click bid and quality
score are the two variables but one of
the things that I've learned in my
experience that is if your max cost per
click bid is not set high enough to at
least be competitive you're expected
click-through rate is going to suffer
and your quality score is gonna get
dragged down as well so I've noticed
from like smaller accounts I've worked
on where they're very very specific on
the max cost per click bids they set and
they're even below the first page level
bids that google gives you as an
estimate that their quality scores are
are suffering as well despite the fact
that they might have add relevance and
landing page experience average or above
average and the reason for that is is
since their max cost per click bid is so
low Google's already predicting that
since your bid is so low your ads will
not be clicked on very often because
you're gonna lose out to other to other
competitors so just make sure that you
put your max cost per click bid to at
least be competitive and then from there
you can work on the Quality Score aspect
of things so you can maintain the same
bid and and still outrank your
competitors and then the second thing is
bid strategy a lot of the times if
people try to use things like target CPA
bidding and they don't have enough
conversion volume what happens is Google
will set your bids so low that it that
your ad rank will get hurt and your
expect to click the rate will plummet
because again your bid level is not
competitive enough so because of your
bid strategy that you're expecting click
the rate is gonna go down because since
your bids are so low who's gonna click
on your ads because they're never gonna
get seen so that's really the one of the
big ones that I've noticed another one
is testing a lot of the times when
people have below average expected
click-through rates it's because they do
not do frequent ad testing so this is
why ad testing is so important always
trying new concepts in your ads whether
it's dynamic keyword insertion or using
your brand name or using more call to
actions within the ad copy but always
frequently ad testing is huge because
the more frequent you add you test your
ads and you're continuously improving
your click-through rates this is going
to positively impact your expected
click-through rate and your quality
scores overall the next thing is
extensions you want to use as many ad
extensions as possible this allows your
ads to be larger
take a more page on the search engine
result page and the larger add the more
likely your ads will be clicked and as
well as with ad extensions you're
providing the search or more information
so your ad by default will have a much
higher chance of being clicked on than
another ad that doesn't utilize all this
additional information that they could
be attaching to the ad so just make sure
you're using extensions as many as
possible I would say the most important
ones are site links call-outs structured
snippets those are the big ones site
links being the number one because they
can really take up a lot of space and
then the next one is match types your
match types can negatively affect your
expected click-through rate as well if
you're matched your keywords don't have
any match types they're super broad well
that means you're going to show up for a
lot of different searches whether
they're relevant or irrelevant and by
adding in all those irrelevant
impressions your click-through rates are
gonna go down versus if you're being
more specific whether it's a phrase
match type or an exact match type where
you're gonna reduce the amount of
impressions irrelevant impressions that
you're receiving and that way you're
showing up more often for the right kind
of searches and by that by showing up
for the right kind of searches more
often your ads will get clicked on more
often and your click-through rates will
go up your expected click-through rates
will go up your quality scores will go
up and your ad rank will increase as
well and then the next one is negative
keywords aside from just removing
irrelevant searches because at the end
of the day when it comes to advertising
it's really we want to show our ad to
the right person at the right time
that's essentially it and with negative
keywords of course we want to remove
irrelevant searches but another aspect
that I don't feel like is talked about
enough is impressions as well irrelevant
impressions I don't even want to show up
at all for anything irrelevant
that I'm advertising on so if I'm doing
dog sitting services I'm gonna block out
things like dog sitting books dog
sitting videos for example I don't even
want my ad to have the potential to show
up on those kind of irrelevant searches
regardless if my ads get clicked on just
the irrelevant impression itself by
getting more impressions and less clicks
your click-through rate is going to go
down and your expect to click the rate
will be hurt as an effect of that so I
hope that makes sense so kind of recap
when
to your ad rank it comes down to your
max cost per click bid and your quality
score so really by improving your
quality score you can have a higher ad
rank with a less cost per click bid so
for example I can my max cost per click
big can be $5 and yours could be 10 but
if my quality score is 10 at a 10 and
your quality score is 1 out of 10 I can
actually outrank you in the search
results page by paying less per click so
that's why quality score super important
but also do not underestimate the
importance of max cost per click as well
now moving forward I'm going to go ahead
and hop into an account and show you how
you can modify your columns so you can
diagnose your quality score further and
see whether or not it's add relevance
that's hurting your quality score if
it's a landing page experience or if
it's expected click the rate so let's go
and do that right now alright guys so
I'm here in a live account and to get
started you're gonna go ahead and hop
into your Google Ads account and you're
gonna click on all campaigns on the top
left and then click on keywords and then
from here you're gonna click on columns
modify columns and you're gonna go down
to Quality Score and we want to make
sure we check landing page experience
expected click-through rate and then add
relevance and then just click apply and
then now you can see here I'm gonna
scroll a little bit but you can see here
on the right-hand side you can see how
you're doing
landing page experience wise how you're
doing expected click-through rate wise
and how you're doing in terms of add
relevant and then this way you can
diagnose which one of those three
Quality Score variables you need to work
on the most and then another thing as
well you can do to kind of simplify this
if you have a large account is you can
go ahead and download this as an excel
file and then you can take this data and
you can put it into a pivot table and
then you can segment the pivot table
based on one of the three variables
whether you want to see add relevance
landing page experience or quality score
a really awesome video you should check
out if you want to learn more about
pivot tables and Quality Score is go
check out brad geddes that's where I
learned about this and how to use pivot
tables for quality score and he has a
lot of awesome resources on YouTube you
can look at but that's gonna be it for
this video go ahead and diagnose your
quality score take a look at your max
cost per click bids see where you can
improve your ad rank the most so
ultimately you can get your ads seen
more often I hope this video has been
helpful if it has and you got some value
from this go ahead and subscribe to the
channel like
content every week and I'll see you next
time take care
[Music]